# Java Foundation

### Basic concepts

###### Features of Java language

- **Simple and easy to learn:** Java language has a syntax that is similar to C++ language but without many of its complex features. This makes it easier for programmers to learn and write code in Java. 

- **Object-oriented:** Java is an object-oriented programming language that supports encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism. 

- **Platform independence:** Java programs can run on any platform that has a Java Virtual Machine (JVM) installed after once complie. 

- **Support for multithreading:** Java has built-in support for multithreading. 

- **Reliability:** Java programs are more reliable compared to other programming languages because of its strict compile-time checking for syntax and run-time checking for memory allocation and deallocation. 

- **Security:** Java is a highly secure programming language as it runs inside a virtual machine that prevents any unauthorized access to the system. 

- **Support for network programming:** Java language was designed with network programming in mind. 

- **Coexistence of compilation and interpretation:** Java programs are compiled into bytecode, which is then interpreted by the JVM at runtime.

###### JVM, JRE, JDK
- **JVM:** Java Virtual Machine is an abstract computing machine that provides a runtime environment to execute Java bytecode. It interprets the bytecode and converts it into machine code that can be executed by the host operating system.

- **JRE:** Java Runtime Environment is a software package that contains everything required to run a Java program, including the JVM, class libraries, and other supporting files.

- **JDL:** Java Development Kit is a software development kit that contains everything required to develop and run Java applications, including the JRE, the JVM, and development tools such as a compiler, debugger, and documentation.


###### What is the bytecode and its advantage

- **Bytecode:** is an intermediate code that is generated by a complier after the source code of a program is translated into machine code.

- **Procedure:** .java -> javac complie -> .class -> interpreter & JIT -> machine code
    1. .class -> machine code, this step JVM load the bytecode, and interpret it line by line, it waste some time. So JIT can save hot bytecode as machine code. If execute this code again, it can directly run the machine code. 
    2. JDK9 introduce AOT(Ahead Of Time Compilation). Compile the bytecode to machine code directly. Prevent the pre-warm of JIT. JDK support compile by layer cooperate with AOT.

- **Advantages:**
    1. **Platform independence && Portability:** Bytecode is designed to be executed by a virtual machine, which means that it can run on any platform that has the appropriate VM installed.
    2. **Security:** Bytecode is a form of intermediate code, Which means that it is not directly executable by a computer's hardware. This provides an extra layer of security for programs because bytecode can be verified and checked for security issues before it is executed.
    3. **Efficiency:** Bytecode is often more compact than machine code, which means that it can be transmitted over a network or stored on a disk more efficiently. This can result in faster program execution times and reduced storage requirements.
    4. **Performance:** Java bytecode is compiled just once, and then executed on the JVM, This can result in better performance than interpreted language. 

###### Why don't we alway use AOT



